Draft for generating a certificate and importing one (#2890)
zowe/docs-site: docs/user-guide/import-certificates.md

    As a default, Firefox uses its own certificate truststore.

    Create a new Javascript file firefox-windows-truststore.js at `C:\Program Files (x86)\Mozilla Firefox\defaults\pref` with the   following content:

    ```
    /* Enable experimental Windows truststore support */
    pref("security.enterprise_roots.enabled", true);
    ```

**Tip:**  
To avoid requiring each browser to trust the CA that signed the Zowe certificate, you can use a public certificate authority to create a certificate. Optional public certificate authorities include _Symantec_, _Comodo_, _Let's Encrypt_, or _GoDaddy_.  Certificates generated by such public CAs are trusted by all browsers and most REST API clients. This option, however, requires a manual process to request a certificate and may incur a cost payable to the publicly trusted CA.

### Import a local CA certificate on Linux

Zowe also supports importing certificates to make REST GTTPS curl request from the command line.

Follow the instructions to import `local_ca.cer` from the path `.../zowe/keystore/local_ca`. Notes: the steps are verified with Ubuntu 20.04.6 LTS.

> 1. Rename it with `.crt` file extension and copy it to the shared ca-certificates path.

Reviewer: Rename what? Please say what 'it' is.

# Import and configure a certificate if you have one

One option for using certificates in Zowe is to import and configure existing certificates. Zowe supports the following types of certificates for import:

* File-based [PKCS12 certificates](#import-an-existing-pkcs12-certificate)

> * [JCERACFKS certificates](#import-an-existing-jceracfks-certificate)

Reviewer 2: Or more? Not sure if we've claimed support for other types of keyrings yet.
Though either way - do we actually want to say KCERACFKS here, or just say z/OS keyring

Review the procedure to import existing PKCS12 or JCERACFKS certificates as well as how to import a certificate stored in an MVS data set into a Zowe key ring.

## Import an existing PKCS12 certificate

> To import a PKCS12 certificate, it is first necessary to [import a certificate authority](#manually-import-a-certificate-authority-into-a-web-browser). Then, you can configure the zowe.yaml according to [Scenario 2: Use a file-based (PKCS12) keystore and import a certificate generated by another CA](#certificate-configuration-scenarios.md/#scenario-2-use-a-pkcs12-keystore-and-import-a-certificate-generated-by-another-ca) described in the article Certificate configuration scenarios.

Reviewer 3: This describes how to manually import a certificate to a browser. While this is also useful, it doesn't help at Zowe installation time. We need to talk about truststore and keyrings here.

| `zowe.setup.certificate.pkcs12.import.password` | Specify it. This value is the password for keystore defined in `zowe.setup.certificate.pkcs12.import.keystore`. |
| `zowe.setup.certificate.pkcs12.import.alias` | Specify it. This value is the original certificate alias defined in `zowe.setup.certificate.pkcs12.import.keystore`. |
| `zowe.setup.certificate.pkcs12.name`| The imported certificate is saved under the alias specified in it. |

**Configure `zowe.yaml`:**
```
zowe:
  setup:
    certificate:
      type: PKCS12
      pkcs12:
        directory: /var/zowe/keystore
        lock: true
          name: localhost     # Optional, default value is localhost.
          password: password  # Optional, default value is password.
        import:
          keystore: ""
          password: ""
          alias: ""
      importCertificateAuthorities:
        - ""
```

**Note:**  
Due to the limitation of the RACDCERT command, the `importCertificateAuthorities` field can contain a maximum of two entries.

> ### Manually import a certificate authority into a web browser

Reviewer 3: This section could probably be moved to the client-side setup description.

  - **For macOS**, run the following command:  
    
    ```
    $ sudo security add-trusted-cert -d -r trustRoot -k /Library/Keychains/System.keychain localca.cer
    ```

  - **For Firefox**, manually import your root certificate via the Firefox settings, or force Firefox to use the Windows truststore.
    As a default, Firefox uses its own certificate truststore.

    Create a new Javascript file firefox-windows-truststore.js at `C:\Program Files (x86)\Mozilla Firefox\defaults\pref` with the   following content:

    ```
    /* Enable experimental Windows truststore support */
    pref("security.enterprise_roots.enabled", true);
    ```

**Tip:**  
To avoid requiring each browser to trust the CA that signed the Zowe certificate, you can use a public certificate authority to create a certificate. Optional public certificate authorities include _Symantec_, _Comodo_, _Let's Encrypt_, or _GoDaddy_.  Certificates generated by such public CAs are trusted by all browsers and most REST API clients. This option, however, requires a manual process to request a certificate and may incur a cost payable to the publicly trusted CA.

### Import a local CA certificate on Linux

> Zowe also supports importing certificates to make REST GTTPS curl request from the command line.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Zowe also supports importing certificates to make REST HTTPS curl request from the command line.
```

| `zowe.setup.certificate.pkcs12.import.password` | Specify it. This value is the password for keystore defined in `zowe.setup.certificate.pkcs12.import.keystore`. |
| `zowe.setup.certificate.pkcs12.import.alias` | Specify it. This value is the original certificate alias defined in `zowe.setup.certificate.pkcs12.import.keystore`. |
| `zowe.setup.certificate.pkcs12.name`| The imported certificate is saved under the alias specified in it. |

**Configure `zowe.yaml`:**
```
zowe:
  setup:
    certificate:
      type: PKCS12
      pkcs12:
        directory: /var/zowe/keystore
        lock: true
          name: localhost     # Optional, default value is localhost.
          password: password  # Optional, default value is password.
        import:
          keystore: ""
          password: ""
          alias: ""
      importCertificateAuthorities:
        - ""
```

**Note:**  
Due to the limitation of the `RACDCERT` command, the `importCertificateAuthorities` field can contain a maximum of two entries.

> ### Manually import a certificate authority into a web browser

Reviewer 4: To better follow our style guide: Manually importing a ...

# Import and configure an existing certificate 

Zowe makes it possible to import and configure existing certificates. The following certificates are supported by Zowe:

* PKCS12 certificates
* JCERACFKS certificates

> Review the procedure to import existing PKCS12 or JCERACFKS certificates as well as how to import a certificate stored in an MVS data set into a Zowe keyring.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Review the procedure to import existing PKCS12 or JCERACFKS certificates as well as how to import a certificate stored in an MVS data set into a Zowe key ring.
```

## Import an existing JCERACFKS certificate

To import a JCERACFKS certificate, you need to configure the section `[# >>>> Certificate setup scenario 4](https://github.com/zowe/zowe-install-packaging/blob/60bc4b44ecd502fcec640fbb9e2874e9d56e826a/example-zowe.yaml#L211)` in `zowe.yaml`. To use a JCERACFKS certificate, specify the following parameters in the `zowe.yaml` file.

- `zowe.setup.certificate.keyring.connect.user`  
This is a required parameter that specifies the owner of existing certificate. This field can have value of SITE or a user ID.
- `zowe.setup.certificate.keyring.connect.label`  
This is a required parameter that sets the label of an existing certificate.

**Example YAML:**
```
zowe:
  setup:
    certificate:
      type: JCERACFKS
      keyring:
        name: ZoweKeyring
        connect:
          user: IBMUSER
          label: ""
      importCertificateAuthorities:
        - ""
```

**Note:**  
Due to the limitation of the RACDCERT command, the `importCertificateAuthorities` field can contain a maximum of two entries.

> ## Import a certificate stored in an MVS data set into a Zowe keyring

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
## Import a certificate stored in an MVS data set into a Zowe key ring
```

# Import and configure an existing certificate 

Zowe makes it possible to import and configure existing certificates. The following certificates are supported by Zowe:
* PKCS12 certificates
* JCERACFKS certificates 

Review the procedure to import existing PKCS12 or JCERACFKS certificates as well as how to import a certificate stored in an MVS data set into a Zowe keyring.
## Import an existing PKCS12 certificate

> To import a PKCS12 certificate, it is first necessary to import a certificate authority. Then, you can configure the section `>>>> Certificate setup scenario 2` in `zowe.yaml`. 

Reviewer: Are there links to these certificate setup scenarios?

Author: > Are there links to these certificate setup scenarios?
Done.

For PKCS12 certificate users, specify the following parameters in the `zowe.yaml` file:

> * Define `zowe.setup.certificate.pkcs12.import.keystore` if you acquired one or more certificates from another CA, stored them in PKCS12 format, and now want to import the certificate(s) into the Zowe PKCS12 keystore.

Reviewer: Are any of these parameters optional? If they are required or optional, we should note it.

Author: Done.

* Specify `zowe.setup.certificate.pkcs12.import.password`  
 This value is the password for keystore defined in `zowe.setup.certificate.pkcs12.import.keystore`.

* Specify `zowe.setup.certificate.pkcs12.import.alias`  
This value is the original certificate alias defined in `zowe.setup.certificate.pkcs12.import.keystore`.

    The imported certificate is saved under the alias specified in `zowe.setup.certificate.pkcs12.name`.

**Example YAML:**
```
zowe:
  setup:
    certificate:
      type: PKCS12
      pkcs12:
        directory: /var/zowe/keystore
        lock: true
          name: localhost
          password: password
        import:
          keystore: ""
          password: ""
          alias: ""
      importCertificateAuthorities:
        - ""
```

**Note:**  
Due to the limitation of RACDCERT command, the `importCertificateAuthorities` field can contain a maximum of two entries.

### Manually import a certificate authority into a web browser

> To import an existing certificate and avoid the browser untrusted CA challenge, import Zowe's certificates into the browser.

Author: > It seems we should add the procedure or a link to import certificates into a browser.

Good point! But it might depend on what browser you use. I will make a comparison with different browsers.

> To import an existing certificate and avoid the browser untrusted CA challenge, import Zowe's certificates into the browser.

Reviewer 6: I agree, good UX to provide link to fix the issue. Would be a good standard throughout Zowe (if it isn't already), we are finding out that a chunk of the audience is in unfamiliar territory.
